# Last Week in RISC-V: Friday November  9, 2018

## OpenWRT Port

Zoltan has [posted a patch
set](http://lists.infradead.org/pipermail/openwrt-devel/2018-November/014501.html)
to add RISC-V support to OpenWRT, which is based on glibc right now.  It
supports SiFive's VC707 dev kit, HiFive Unleashed, and QEMU.  The port
is experimental, but it's a great way to get started with RISC-V
embedded Linux development.  The patch set is currently in a staging
branch.

## QOM Conversion of RISC-V Devices

Peter Maydell [pointed out that a few of the RISC-V device
models](http://lists.nongnu.org/archive/html/qemu-devel/2018-11/msg01089.html)
in QEMU haven't been properly converted to QEMU's Object Model.
Conversion of these device models will aid us in building configurable
QEMU machines.  If you're interested in getting started with RISC-V QEMU
development, then this is a great place to start!

## Stabilizing the RISC-V QEMU Port for the 3.1.0 Release

QEMU is in the release candidate phase of its release cycle, which means
it's time to start seriously testing the RISC-V QEMU port in order to
try to shake out any bugs before release.

## RISC-V FOSDEM Dev Room

RISC-V has been selected for a dev room at FOSDEM in 2019, where we'll
have a full day of RISC-V related talks and discussion.  The deadline
for abstract submission is November 25th, 2018.  More details can be
seen on the
[CFP](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-wiki/wiki/FOSDEM-2019-RISC-V-Devroom).

## Free open source RISC-V envelope model and free riscvOVPsim ISS from Imperas

*Contributed by Simon from Imperas*

Imperas has made available the source of their full RISC-V model - which
covers the full 2.2+, 1.10+ specs and have also made available a free
ISS that is configurable for all the options of the RISC-V specs.  The
free ISS: riscvOVPsim is available as part of the [RISC-V compliance
framework](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-compliance) and with its
configurability, debug and flexible tracing is used as one of the
reference simulators by the compliance group. The model source is [here](
https://github.com/riscv/riscv-ovpsim/tree/master/source), and the free
riscvOVPsim can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-ovpsim).

## Events

* November 13: [RISC-V Microconference at Linux Plumbers
  Conference](https://blog.linuxplumbersconf.org/2018/) in Vancouver,
  Canada.
* November 20: [Cambridge UK RISC-V
  meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Cambridge-RISC-V-Meetup-Group/events/255583656/)
  hosted by Imperas and UltraSoC in Cambridge, U.K.
* December 3: [RISC-V Summit](https://tmt.knect365.com/risc-v-summit/)
  in Santa Clara, CA.
* February 2: [RISC-V Dev Room at
  FOSDEM](http://lists.nongnu.org/archive/html/qemu-devel/2018-11/msg01089.html)
  in Brussles, Belgium.
