# Last Week in RISC-V: Friday November 16, 2018

This week I was at the Linux Plumbers Conference in Vancouver, so that
will cover the vast majority of the 

## 64-bit `time_t` in the RV32I glibc/Linux ABI

32-bit machines will remain popular for the foreseeable future, as
they're perfectly acceptable for many use cases.  RISC-V won't change
this trend: while clean-room Linux-sized RISC-V designs are likely to be
64-bit it's quite likely that we end up with 32-bit RISC-V designs
running Linux.

One thing we can fix in RISC-V land is `time_t`: this is currently a
32-bit value on all 32-bit platforms, which will overflow in 19 years.
If an embedded, Linux-capable RISC-V design was to be done today it's
likely that it survive until this value overflows.  This will, of
course, break all sorts of assumptions in code.

The 32-bit RISC-V Linux and glibc ABIs are not currently stable because
our glibc port is not yet upstream.  We're targeting the next glibc
release, which itself is targeted for February, for 32-bit RISC-V ABI
stabilization.  That means we have a unique window: over the next month
we need to get all the instances of 32-bit `time_t` out of the RV32I
user ABI.

Cleaning the ABI of all references to 32-bit `time_t` is a lot harder
than it looks.  Arnd Bergmann [gave a
talk](https://linuxplumbersconf.org/event/2/contributions/57/) at Linux
Plumbers Conference this week.  While it probably won't be possible to
get everything clean, we should at least be able to get the entire
system call interface clean with a bit of help.

After a second round of talks about `time_t` on RV32I, we decided that
it is best to leave RV32I support out of this glibc release.  The freeze
is coming very soon, and there won't be a 64-bit clean `time_t` ABI
ready in time.  Instead we're going to allow everything to slip another
release cycle so we can have a clean RV32I `time_t` ABI.

If you're looking to get into RISC-V kernel development, then now is a
great time to start!
